THREE DIMENSIONAL SIMULATION OF SPACE.
State is defined as-
• The current position in terms of x, y, z coordinates.
• The current velocity in x, y, z axis
• Radius of the object
• Mass of the object
The solar system consists of stars, planets and asteroids as space objects. Consider a hypothetical
situation where the only forces influencing the space objects is the gravitational force between
them.
You are given a dataset representing the current state of the solar system and time is denoted by
‘t’.
Your objective is to simulate and arrive at the state of all space objects when t = 1e+6 (unless
otherwise specified for the test case).
Constraints:
● General:
➢ Smallest unit of time for simulation is 1-unit time, i.e. time can only be an integer
➢ 1e+14 < Mass of stars <= 1e+15 units
➢ 1e+4 < Mass of planets <= 1e+7 units
➢ 0 < Mass of asteroid <= 0.01 units
➢ Consider Acceleration to be constant during each time interval dt = 1-unit time.
➢ Consider G = 7*1e+4 units
● Collision Mechanism:
➢ Collisions between Planet-Planet and Planet-Star are not taken into consideration and
hence, do not exist in the dataset.
➢ Collisions between asteroid-planet and asteroid-star leads to destruction of the
asteroid.
➢ Collisions between asteroid-asteroid leads to the destruction of both the asteroids.
Objective:
 You are to note the time at which the collision takes place.
 You are to note the time at which the asteroid goes too far away from the sun, i.e. beyond
6*1e+10 unit of distance.
Note that, any activity of the space system taking place at a distance beyond 6*1e10 is not taken
into consideration.
You are given basic modules to read/save data into an excel file. All you need to do is to build
the logical module for the question above.
Evaluation will be done on the basis of:
● Primary Evaluation is done in such a way as to check accuracy of time of collision of
asteroid.
● Secondary Evaluation is done in such a way as to check accuracy of state of space
objects.
● Efficiency of your program may also be tested in case of a draw.
Sample Test Cases:
Orbit: 1M units of time, 2 objects
The answer for Orbit is the excel sheet named “Orbit Final”.
Sample 1: 0.1M units of time, 4 objects
The answer for Sample 1 is the excel sheet named “Final 1”.
Sample 2: 0.1M units of time, 4 objects
The answer for Sample 2 is the excel sheet named “Final 2”.
Test Cases:
Test2: 0.7M units of time, 7 objects.
Test 3: 1M units of time, 7 objects.
Test 4: 1M units of time, 10 objects.
Test 5: 0.8M units of time, 10 objects
